Hospital Stays
==============

Hospital stays are inevitable. While always unpleasant, there are a few things you can do to make the stay more tolerable.

Bed comfort
-----------
Every hospital bed seems to be designed to inflict maximum hip pain, particularly for us side sleeper. Be aware that the nursing staff may be able to offer some help.
### Foam wedge and the nest
I find that the hip hinge is too rigid, resulting in my being completely unable to sleep on my side after a few nights, with pain persisting well after the stay. 
A nurse supplied me with a foam wedge that I was able to create a small shelf over the upper body hinge point with that at least eliminated most of the pain. I created a "nest" with the wedge in the middle and pillows on each side.
This arrangement lets me at least create a "throne" that I can sit in for extended periods without increasing hip pain.

Mattress inflator
-----------------
Some hospital mattresses can be outfitted with a quiet inflation pump that creates more of a cushion for your joints. Be sure to ask what the options are.

Large pillow
------------
A large king-size foam pillow has been a life saver. Be sure not to leave it behind! I've got more details on my recommended pillow on the [[Comfort and tips]] page.

Pyjama tops
-----------
There's nothing worse than the undignified "johnny" tops given out by hospitals for patient wear. The next worse thing is wearing clothing that interferes with access. I discovered that good old fashioned full button pyjama tops are ideal for comfort while allowing ready access to my body when needed. I like a soft flip-up collar for extra warmth.

Overnight/stay bag
------------------
It's well worth keeping a bad with 2 or 3 days worth of clean tops, bottoms, underwear, and basic toiletries in your car. If I'm feeling particularly poorly for a scheduled visit, I even cart this along just in case I get admitted.

Ear plugs
---------
If you do get admitted, there's a chance you'll spend time in the ER or a shared room. Unfortunately, you're likely to be in close proximity to others undergoing their own suffering. I pack a set of silicone ear plugs of the sort that can be molded over my ear canal to create a good sound seal for these situations.